
## FAQ's
How Long Will My Pain/Problem Last? Although some guidelines exist for how long certain injuries take to recover from it is important to remember that everyone’s body is different and the way each of us responds to treatment may be different as well.  Factors such as diet and emotional health can also effect how long it will take you to reach your goal.  However, you can get a rough estimate of your length of recovery by considering how long you’ve had your problem (see “How Do Injuries Occur?” above).  Generally the longer you’ve had a problem the longer it will take to correct.  A problem that truly started 10 days ago will respond much sooner than one that started 20 years ago.

How Often Should I Perform These Exercises and Stretches? For optimal results, we generally recommend patients perform three sets of each exercise at least twice per day (ex. 3 times in the morning followed by 3 times in the evening).  Stretches should be held at a light to moderate intensity for 30 seconds multiple times per day.  

What Is The Difference Between Strength And Endurance? Basically, strength can be thought of as your ability to perform an action over a short period of time whereas endurance is your ability to perform an action over a longer period of time (i.e. Performing one bench press vs. Performing many).  Although both are important, most of your efforts should be aimed at improving your endurance rather than strength when performing rehabilitation exercises.  To do this try to perform a minimum of 15 repetitions per set.

What Is The Difference Between A Concentric vs. Eccentric Contraction? A concentric contraction means a muscle is shortening (think flexing your arm) whereas an eccentric contraction means a muscle is lengthening (think extending your arm).  Because most muscles perform both functions, it is extremely important to focus on both when performing ALL rehabilitation exercises.  Slowly counting to three as you lengthen the muscle and again as you contract the muscle is a great way to make sure your focusing on both phases.  This will make the muscles and surrounding tissues much stronger and greatly minimize your risk of re-injury.

Which Exercises and Stretches Should I Do? Recommended exercises and stretches can be found in the “Injury Summaries” section next to “Self Treatment”.  Here you can find a variety of recommendations for self treatment for a variety of injuries along with recommended exercises and stretches.  If it is recommended you “Strengthen hip external rotators” for example, choose exercises from this book that help strengthen your hip external rotators.

How Many Exercises and Stretches Should I Do? In this case more isn’t necessarily better.  Try to be realistic in how much time you can commit each day to performing these exercises and stretches.  Performing only one exercise and one stretch per day routinely is better than trying to perform more sporadically.  Also consider how urgent your recovery is.  If you need to be better in a couple weeks you’ll probably benefit from picking three to four exercises and stretches per day instead of just one or two.  The important thing is to remain committed to performing your exercises and stretches daily.

At What Point Should I Seek Medical Attention? Although many injuries and conditions respond positively to self-treatment, there are some that do not.  You may want to seek the help of a professional include if you see a continual worsening of your symptoms or condition, your symptoms or condition aren’t responding to self-treatment, or if you notice a rapid changing of your symptoms or condition in a non-positive way.

What Type Of Professional Should I See? Chiropractors, medical doctors, and physical therapists can all offer a difference perspective on your condition.  If you try one and don’t get the results you are looking for or don’t like the answers you receive, move on and try another until you do.  Also remember that there a great differences between practitioners even within specialties.  For example, there are over 100 different techniques chiropractors can choose to specialize in.  If you find you don’t like your experience with one chiropractor then try another.  Chances are good your experience will be entirely different and may be just what you were looking for.